Real-Time Applications with Go and ReactJS (Part 1) (#6)
hetzneronline/community-content: tutorials/real-time-apps-with-go-and-reactjs_part1.md

> The Write Method takes a byte array. That's great for HTTP/2 which is a binary protocol, unlike HTTP.

In our case, we want to return a UTF-8 String. Gladly, this isn't C (even if it looks like it is) and the byte array type has a very convenient interface for converting our String to a byte array: `[]byte("string here")`.

Now we stick the Parts together:

```go
package main

import "net/http"

func sayHandler(w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request) {
    w.Write([]byte("Hi"))
}

func main() {
    http.HandleFunc("/say", sayHandler)
    http.ListenAndServe(":4000", nil)
}
```

Testing it with `curl`:

```bash
$ curl localhost:4000/say
Hi%
```

## Step 2 - Processing Input-Data

The Web and HTTP(S)(/2) is a core construct in Go; actually, golang was made for Web Development and Networking.

Of course, it comes with parsing functions for URL and POST/PATCH/PUT Body.

`Request.FormValue(key String)` returns a String with the Value of the Key.

We exchange the static "Hi" with the String we read from a Requests URL or Body.

```go
func sayHandler(w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request) {
 w.Write([]byte(r.FormValue("name")))

}
```

Test: `curl` (or open it in any web browser)

> ```sdafsdf

Reviewer: What is this?

    name := r.FormValue("name")
    message := r.FormValue("message")

     w.Write([]byte(name + " " + message))
}
```

## Step 3 - Implementing the `/listen` Handler

For the `listenHandler` we do the same as we did for the `sayHandler`, but without parsing any input. 
We instead tell the Client that the connection should be kept alive.

We create a new Handler `listenHandler` and set the **HTTP Header "Connection" to "keep-alive"** to tell the Client not to terminate the Connection. Also, we set **HTTP Header "Content-Type" to "text/event-stream"**.

To make sure that we are not Terminating the Connection from our side early, we wait for the Close event of the Client.

```go
//......
func listenHandler(w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request) {
    w.Header().Set("Connection", "keep-alive")
    w.Header().Set("Content-Type", "text/event-stream")
    
    select {
        case <-r.Context().Done():
            return;
    }
}
//......
func main() {
    http.HandleFunc("/listen", listenHandler)
    //......
}
```

The Arrow Syntax "<-" belongs to one of the core concepts of concurrency in golang: `channel`s, it blocks the routine until it receives data from a `channel`.

> > A `channel` in go is a typed conduit that can receive data`channel <- data` and data can be read from `data <- channel` Writing to or Reading from a Channel BLOCKS the subroutine. [Example](https://gobyexample.com/channels)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> A `channel` in go is a typed conduit that can receive data `channel <- data` and data can be read from `data <- channel` Writing to or Reading from a Channel BLOCKS the subroutine. [Example](https://gobyexample.com/channels)
```

	w.Header().Set("Connection", "keep-alive")

	_messageChannel := make(chan []byte)
	messageChannels[_messageChannel] =  true

	for {
		select {
			case _msg := <- _messageChannel:
				w.Write(append(_msg,[]byte("\r\n")...))
				w.(http.Flusher).Flush()
			case <-r.Context().Done():
				delete(messageChannels, _messageChannel)
				return;
		}
	}
}
```

> `w.(http.Flusher).Flush()` flushs buffered data to the client explicitly. (be aware of proxy handling here if in a real world app)

**sayHandler**

In the sayHandler we write to the `messageChannels` the listeners added. We do this in a dedicated thread, so we don't let the client wait till we channelled and processed all the data.

Since *concurrency is the core concept of golang*, the keyword for creating a new thread is **`go`**.

```go
// sayHandler Function
    // ...
    //old: w.Write([]byte(name + " " + message))
    go func() {
        for messageChannel := range messageChannels {
            messageChannel <- []byte(name + " " + message)
        }
    }()
    w.Write([]byte("ok"))
```

> pay attention to the `}()`: We are creating an instantly invoking function. 

## Conclusion

> We just built a Realtime Chat app in 45 Lines of Go.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We just built a real-time Chat app in 45 Lines of Go.
```

Reviewer: Or if a proper noun fits better, `Real-Time`

Author: Correct proper noun would be Real-time I guess. But it isn’t.
